This book will introduce a new way of writing recipes. I use this introduction to describe the downside of current recipes and explain how this new methodology solve this.

Recipes, as they used today, are ancient old and therefore prove themselves to be useful. Indeed conventional recipes are helpful and this methodology isn't an attempt to replace it. However, there are some drawbacks. Conventional recipes usually exist of a list of ingredients, instructional text and some additional information like, calories, how many people it will serve, etc.

The first source of difficulty is that there is no convention how to write a recipe. For example: what does it mean, it will serve 4 people? It could be enough for 4 adult people to feel stuffed or is it enough if you eat it with some additional light meals.

Writing conventions would be an easy solution for that problem. However, the way we write recipes doesn't reflect the way we cook. The instructional text is a serial process (i.e. one line at the time) where cooking in general is parallel. i.e. we do different things simultaneously. We boil the pasta while we cut the vegetables. This is very hard to express in text. Occasionally we stumble upon the problem where we read the recipe and figure that we needed to prepare something beforehand or that we measured some ingredients together where we had to split them. This methodology will focus on how we cook and write recipes which complement this behavior.

The most natural way of doing this is using flowcharts. Flowcharts are very easy to read for most people. In contrast to text, it could express parallel processes as-well as decision points, just at first glance. However using flowchart alone is not enough. The methodology exists of a couple of principles which are the fundamental building block of the recipe. A flowchart is only a way to visualize it. 

The goal of this book is the get acquainted with the flow methodology so-that you learn how to use it and write recipes yourself. Keep in mind that it is never easy to learn something new but when you used to it will make your cooking experience a lot better.